>> Brian Holt: The next thing we need
to do is we need to write post note.
>> Brian Holt: So
we're gonna create this post note.js,
the name here is not significant,
you can call whatever you want.
However, this one's important
because now we have to say,
use server, we have to be explicit
that this only runs on the server.
>> Brian Holt: So this is the only time
that you need to use servers when you're
identifying this function that we're
doing here only runs on the server.
Async database from promise polite,
export default async function, postnote,
and this is gonna take in form data, okay?
We'll just console log here,
because I think it's interesting,
postnote called and with form data.
>> Brian Holt: And
then here we're just gonna say const
from = form data.get from user.
>> Brian Holt: If this looks familiar,
it's because it's the same API for
getting stuff out of
a form client side and
we'll just do the same thing, two, right?
And we'll do the same thing here, note.
>> Brian Holt: All right,
so from to a note,
those are what we call them on our form.
>> Brian Holt: And you can do some
validation here if you want to, so
if no from.
>> Brian Holt: Or no to or no note,
you just throw new error.
>> Brian Holt: With very
helpful instructions.
>> Brian Holt: And
then we just saved to the database, right?
That's it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay and then await db.run.
>> Brian Holt: Insert into
notes from user to user,
note values and then just question mark,
comma, question mark,
comma, question mark.
If you're not familiar with
parameterized queries,
this is gonna do all the SQL scrubbing for
you, what escape sequences, right?
So that you don't have to worry about
SQL injection, all that kind of stuff.
>> Brian Holt: Because all this
stuff Is coming from a user, right?
From to note, right?
And it's the order's important
from to a note, okay?
And you could send something back here,
but we don't need to.
>> Learners: Could you put this post
note function inside the right page?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so you could
totally put this directly in here,
just like we did here, get users.
It would get in the same function,
get the form data out and send it,
it would work the exact same way.
I mostly put these out here because
I wanted to write use server.
>> Brian Holt: Right, because this is
now being run in a different context.
If it's directly in here, it already
knows that this is a server component, so
you don't have to have it there.
But I wanted to show you the occasion
where you would write use server.
>> Learners: Is that [COUGH] just for
functions, or if you had a component,
you have to also.
>> Brian Holt: Components
are implicitly using server, yeah, so
it's only use client that you have
to write, yeah, good question.
>> Brian Holt: All right,
are we still running?
We sure are, so let's go back to our home
page and we're gonna write a note and
we can't find undefined properties,
so let's go figure out what that is.
>> Brian Holt: Page here.
>> Brian Holt: Get users
await slash notes,
I probably messed that up, didn't I?
Yep, you got a return.
>> Brian Holt: There we go, so
I did not have return there on line seven,
It was querying the data base,
It just wasn't doing anything with it.
So make sure, yeah, line seven,
return db.all, select star from users.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so now you can see I
have all the people here in the database.
I can write a note from Brian, let's
write one to Mark since he's not here.
What should we write to
mark in the database?
Because it's like-
>> Learners: Where are you?
Where are you?
>> Brian Holt: Where the are you?
>> Brian Holt: All right, so
now if we go look at my notes,
you can see where the F are you.
[LAUGH] If I bleep it out,
it can go in the course, right, Dustin?
That's the rule.
[LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
questions about that make sense?
Form actions,
that's what those are called, go ahead.
>> Learners: What's the best way to
debug server components in different
environments?
Do you read the logs or
some other method, since debugging in
the Chrome Dev Tools is not always
an option with server components.
>> Brian Holt: So
if you're in the dev environment,
it's usually pretty good that
it forwards server errors.
I mean, let's F around and find out,
as they say, as the kids say.
>> Learners: Is there any way
to set break points for it?
>> Brian Holt: Everything will work just
the way that nothing would apply new here,
right?
So if you were using the debugger
tools here, would work just as well.
>> Brian Holt: Oops.
>> Brian Holt: And I put this on
the other one, so write a note, so
this is on a server component, right?
But I got the error here, so they have
this actually really well handled.
I'm gonna argue it's actually easier to
do it this way with next Js cause they
forward all of your server errors
directly into your browser.
And if we look at our,
it's the same thing here, right?
They actually give you
the snippet of what's wrong here.
>> Learners: I'm assuming that's
specifically because it's being run in dev
mode and
it wouldn't do that in production mode.
>> Brian Holt: Correct, yeah, it wouldn't
include all of the machinery, I mean,
what will actually happen?
I suppose it's just gonna crush, right?
They're gonna get a 500.
>> Brian Holt: I've never shipped
an error, so, I wouldn't know.
[LAUGH] Yeah, I'm sure you'd
hopefully have some error boundary
that would handle it for production.
>> Brian Holt: Other questions?
>> Learners: So, when I click my notes,
I'm not seeing the updates I'm sending.
Is that because I'm reading
a static database or
what do you think went wrong there?
>> Brian Holt: So
you're inserting to the database, and
then you go look at my notes and
it's not there?
>> Learners: Yeah, it's coming in
just fine on the feed and the server,
like the dev server, but
I'm just not seeing it in my.
>> Brian Holt: Are you sending from Brian?
>> Learners: I'm not, is that would be
okay, you can't see everyone's messages.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
well eventually this secret teacher feed,
we'll implement that so you can see it.
>> Learners: Gotcha okay.
>> Brian Holt: If you look at our my page,
you can see we're only
looking from user one.
>> Brian Holt: So
it probably is getting written, right?
So if you change this to be
whatever the correct id was,
you probably would find your note.
We just did server actions,
which are super cool, yeah, actions,
server actions is what you would call
that little thing that we did here,
server actions, that's the term
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
I mean,
it's worthwhile seeing that this out,
this all works in the context of flight as
well, but let's just take a look at that.
So I'm gonna write one from Briana Tanner,
and I'll just say LOL because I'm basic.
And then if we look at the request here,
this is actually what it's sending.
So this is the server protocol for
sending stuff over the wire.
>> Brian Holt: But
name from user to user, one note,
content disposition at some of
these things I don't even know, but
that's what actually is
getting sent over the wire.
That's their API builder that they've kind
of built in here, again, you never have
to care one iota about this, but that's
how it's being implemented, cool, right?
It's kind of interesting.
>> Brian Holt: Because, yeah,
we called an API right under the hood,
it had to get from
the client to the server,
we just didn't have to write
any of that transport.
>> Brian Holt: That's kind of the power
here, I think that's why they went full in
on server like RSCs and next is this
is a really good developer experience.
>> Learners: Since that's being
somewhat abstracted away,
are there any concerns
about performance or
any time where that being abstracted
away becomes kind of a pain point?
>> Brian Holt: As long as you're
within the bounds of next in React,
I can't see why you would do it
any other way that being said,
it is all still just JavaScript, right?
You can still call fetch, you can still
have API endpoints, but I'm interpreting
your question is like, is there a time
where I Could do it and I wouldn't do it.
And I haven't encountered that, I haven't
encountered where time was like I could
write this with React server components,
like the implicit wiring up of it,
and I have opted to not do it,
no performance concerns, right?
Because at the end of the day,
it's just gathering stuff and
sending it over the wire.
>> Learners: Actually had a similar
question around offline, so
would you batch failed calls and
then try to retry them in the app logic or
how do you handle intermittent?
>> Brian Holt: That's good question,
yeah, I mean offline first and
RSCs don't go together,
I can't really see how they would.
You'd have to get real fancy with service
workers in a way that I'm uncomfortable
with, wouldn't recommend it, right?
If offline is important to RSCs in it,
right?
Because it implies the need for a server.